# xGUI Pro

xGUI Pro is a modern, cross-platform, and advanced [HVML] renderer which is
based on tailored [WebKit].

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Building xGUI](#building-xgui)
- [Current Status](#current-status)
- [TODO List](#todo-list)
- [Copying](#copying)
   + [Commercial License](#commercial-license)
   + [Special Statement](#special-statement)

## Introduction

During the development of [HybridOS], [Vincent Wei] proposed a new-style,
general-purpose, and easy-to-learn programming language called `HVML`.

The original design goal of HVML is to allow developers who are familiar with
C/C++, Python, or other programming languages to easily develop GUI applications
by using web front-end technologies (such as DOM and CSS), instead of using
JavaScript programming language in the browser or Node.js.

We achieved this design goal and also designed HVML as a new-style and
general-purpose programming language. Now, we can not only use HVML as
a programming language to rapidly develop GUI applications based on Web
front-end technology in the C/C++ runtime environment, but also use HVML
as a general script language.

For more information about HVML, please refer to <https://github.com/HVML>.

When we use HVML to build the framework of a GUI application framework,
it provides a totally different framework other than Java, C#, or Swift.

In a complete HVML-based application framework, a standalone UI renderer
is usually included. Developers write HVML programs to manipulate the page
content that describes the user interface, and the page content is finally
processed by the renderer and displayed on the screen. The HVML program runs
in the HVML interpreter, which can interact easily with the runtime environment
of other existing programming languages. The HVML program receives data or
events generated by other foreign programs or the renderer, and converts it
into the description of the UI or changes of UI according to the instructions
of the HVML program.

With this design, we separate all applications involving the GUI into two
loose modules:

- First, a data processing module independent of the user interface, developers
can use any programming language and development tools they are familiar with
to develop this module. For example, when it comes to artificial intelligence
processing, developers choose C++ or Python; in C++ code, apart from loading
HVML programs, developers do not need to consider anything related to interface
rendering and interaction, such as creating a button or clicking a menu item.
Developers only need to prepare the data needed to render the user interface
in the C++ code, and these data are usually represented by JSON.

- Second, one or more programs written in the HVML language (HVML programs) to
complete the manipulation of the user interface. The HVML program generates
the description information of the user interface according to the data provided
by the data processing module, and updates the user interface according to the
user's interaction or the calculation results obtained from the data processing
module, or drives the data processing module to complete certain tasks according
to the user's interaction.

In this way, the HVML application framework liberates the code for manipulating
interface elements from the tranditional design pattern of calling interfaces
such as C/C++, Java, C#  and uses HVML code instead. HVML uses a tag language
similar to HTML to manipulate interface elements. By hiding a lot of details,
it reduces the program complexity caused by directly using low-level
programming languages to manipulate interface elements.

xGUI Pro is an open source implementation of such standalone GUI renderer
for HVML programs. It licensed under GPLv3, and it is free for commercial use
if you follow the terms of GPLv3.

## Dependencies


## Building xGUI Pro


## Current Status

- May 2022: Version 0.9.

## TODO List


## Copying

Copyright (C) 2022 FMSoft <https://www.fmsoft.cn>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

### Commercial License

If you cannot accept GPLv3, you need to be licensed from FMSoft.

For more information about the commercial license, please refer to
<https://hybridos.fmsoft.cn/blog/hybridos-licensing-policy>.

### Special Statement

The above open source or free software license(s) does
not apply to any entity in the Exception List published by
Beijing FMSoft Technologies Co., Ltd.

If you are or the entity you represent is listed in the Exception List,
the above open source or free software license does not apply to you
or the entity you represent. Regardless of the purpose, you should not
use the software in any way whatsoever, including but not limited to
downloading, viewing, copying, distributing, compiling, and running.
If you have already downloaded it, you MUST destroy all of its copies.

The Exception List is published by FMSoft and may be updated
from time to time. For more information, please see
<https://www.fmsoft.cn/exception-list>.

[HVML]: https://github.com/HVML
[WebKit]: https://webkit.org
[HybridOS]: https://hybridos.fmsoft.cn
[Vincent Wei]: https://github.com/VincentWei
